[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Many people
know of the elongated skulls
of the royal family of the
18th dynastic period of Egypt.
This has puzzled archeologists
and researchers for centuries.
Who are these people and
why were their skulls
shaped like this?
Maria Wheatley is
here with us today
from England to take us
on a journey of skulls,
saying they were not
just like that in Egypt
and why this matters.
Welcome, it's good to see you.
Last time I saw
you was in London.
>>MARIA WHEATLEY:
Thanks for having me.
>>REGINA: Yeah, we're
trying to figure it out.
It was probably 2017 or 18,
and we opened this subject
up a little bit.
But you, man, you've
done a lot of work since.
You've been digging.
>>WHEATLEY: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: It's been quite a bit.
And you have some really
fascinating new news
to share with us today.
So first of all, for people
who weren't watching Gaia seven
years ago or so,
tell us a little bit
about your background,
your father's background
and the fact that you
were master dowsers
and how that factors
into your research.
>>WHEATLEY: Yes.
I mean, I'm a
second-generation master dowser
who's been studying
Earth energies and ley
lines for lifetime now, really.
And through my
dowsing career, it
led me to the discovery
of the elongated skull
people of Stonehenge.
And this led to a much wider
search across the British Isles,
across Europe, to find out
more about this long-lost race
that the archeologists in
the UK do not speak about.
>>REGINA: Yes, when people
are hearing you right there,
they're saying, whoa,
whoa, whoa, wait a minute.
Longheaded skulls at Stonehenge?
I haven't heard of this before.
So first of all, how
new is this discovery
that these skulls existed there
because this isn't well covered.
>>WHEATLEY: No.
I was the first
person to discover
the elongated skulls of the
British Isles, for example.
And really, I got
there through dowsing.
>>REGINA: Tell us about
that, how you found these?
Because we know that
universities put tons of money
into digs and so forth,
but there are other ways
to locate things.
>>WHEATLEY: Absolutely.
I got a map of the
Stonehenge environs
and placed it in my living room.
So this massive
map of Stonehenge.
And then in dowsing,
it's always been
said that you ask a pendulum
or a rod what to find.
For example, show me
the nearest ley line.
Is there a skull associated
with this barrow?
I thought I would
turn it on its head
and do a completely
different approach.
And I asked the landscape,
what do you want me to find?
And then from that, I
literally got fixated
on this massive long barrow.
I began to research it and found
out it housed just one person,
and that person was a woman.
Now, that's unprecedented
in the ancient world,
because normally long barrows
housed up to 30, 40, 50 people.
This barrow was, for a
royal person, probably,
maybe even a high
queen of Stonehenge.
And her skull was
very elongated.
>>REGINA: OK, so for people
that don't know about this,
back up a little bit.
Tell us what long barrows are.
>>WHEATLEY: That's right.
Yes.
What are-- what
is a long barrow?
It's a big Neolithic monument.
That means it's 5,500 years old.
Orthodox dating.
And it's a really long piece
of earthwork like this.
It's extended.
>>REGINA: Other than--
It's not a mound.
It's more rectangular.
>>WHEATLEY: Yeah, exactly.
It's very long, and
it has chambers.
And inside of those
chambers you often find
elongated skull people.
Now there was a saying going
back to the 15th century,
"Long barrows, long skulls.
Round barrows, round skulls."
And when I read that
remark, I thought, OK, I'm
going to look at all of the long
barrows surrounding Stonehenge.
And all of the round barrows,
of which there were 800 round
barrows alone.
And I read every single
report to find out
who was in the landscape.
I found shamans, priestesses,
elongated people,
a long-lost history that
has never been voiced.
>>REGINA: I'm surprised that
why hasn't this come out before,
before your innovative way
to start looking at the land
through dowsing?
Hasn't anyone else stumbled
across this before?
>>WHEATLEY: Not the long skulls.
It's almost like they
were completely ignored.
When I went to a university
to photograph and study
the skull that I had found
at Stonehenge, the woman.
She hadn't been seen since 1930.
You have to log in at
Cambridge and put in the dates
that you're visiting and
the purpose and the reason
why you want to
see human remains.
And I was really shocked.
I thought this specimen
is unique to the world,
not just to England.
And literally ignored
for centuries.
>>REGINA: We're going to get
into the tall people and height
and such.
But was she a tall
entity, the one
who was buried in that barrow?
>>WHEATLEY: No.
They were literally two types of
people in prehistoric Britain.
The elongated skull people had
long skulls, but very small
faces.
They almost look childlike.
Their ears are offset.
>>REGINA: That's
very ET sounding.
>>WHEATLEY: Oh, it is.
Their ears are offset.
So imagine that you
can't see our ears
because we've got hair over it.
But there's a further
back giving them
quite a mythological look, like
the Fey or elves, for example.
Their femur bones, which I
measured, numerous femur bones,
gave a height for a male to be
about 5 foot 4, and women 4 feet
9.
They were small, very
small and slender looking.
Literally like the Irish would
describe their fairy folk.
>>REGINA: And then what?
You said there are two types.
That's one type, the
elongated skull type
and the ancient times.
What was the other type?
>>WHEATLEY: Right.
So we've got these really
extended very long skulls,
for example.
Then there was another
race at the same time
as the elongated skull people.
They had long skulls, but not
as long as the royal family
or the rulers of the areas.
So there's two types of
elongated skulls, one lesser
and one greater.
>>REGINA: So the 18th diagnostic
period that's depicted in Egypt,
would that be considered a
longer elongated skull or--?
>>WHEATLEY: Very similar.
Egypt's skulls to Maltese
skulls to British skulls.
They're very, very similar.
They're like a mirror
into each other.
>>REGINA: So you
would have thought
that Egypt would be
influencing Britain
in the ancient times in terms
of the migration of people.
But you say it might have been
somewhat the other way around.
>>WHEATLEY: Exactly.
Because when we look to ancient
Egypt and the connections
to the British
Isles, for example,
you had what's called retainer
burials of the very early Old
Kingdom of Egypt.
And this is when the
pharaoh would die.
And his servants, rather would
go into the burial with him
because they believed so
much in the afterlife.
We would find that
quite macabre.
Why should people
go to death with me?
But it was an honor
in ancient times.
And preceding that in England,
by about two centuries,
the ancient British
people were doing that.
The lesser long
skulls were found
being ritualistically
killed, that
were placed alongside
the ones with
the elongated extended skulls.
>>REGINA: So what
is the thought?
Is it that the very
elongated skull
would tend to be bloodlines that
were more royal, for example?
>>WHEATLEY: I think so.
>>REGINA: And the
others were those
that there were
companions and served them
in some capacity, which is why
they went to death with them?
>>WHEATLEY: Yes,
that's what we're
thinking, because it
was time and time again
this was happening.
You had the extended
elongated skull person
showing no signs of being--
They often cleft
them in the head
like this, like in
a ritual killing.
And that was shown all the times
on the lesser long-skulled,
whereas the elongated
extended skulls,
they showed no signs
of any violence.
And that was repeated
time and again.
I've got about 150 documented
cases of that type of burial,
and it is called
a retainer burial.
Even when it comes to the
druids of the Iron Age,
much, much later than
prehistoric Britain,
Caesar occupied England
with the Romans,
and he reported that
the Celts were still
doing retainer burials
then, and it was an honor.
Again, we're looking at it
not to be a macabre thought,
but they believed
in the afterlife
so much that they wanted
to go to the afterlife.
>>REGINA: Right.
Yeah, it was an invitation.
So on the elongated
skulls, do you
know whether these were
genetically elongated skulls
or whether maybe with the lesser
elongated skulls, that this
may have been a practice of some
kind, some kind of binding head
at birth, in order to have
a certain characteristic?
Or is this thought
to be purely genetic?
>>WHEATLEY: It's difficult
to tell to get 100% accuracy.
What I think was
in occurrence was
they may have been bind in their
skulls to make them slightly
longer, because there were two
scars found either side coming
down here, which is a strong
suggestion that they were
extending their skulls
but born with a long skull
that they were then
extending, so that
could be a high possibility.
Otherwise, they are two
separate people that
were living at the same time.
>>REGINA: Now I find
that really interesting.
So if they were
extending the skulls,
would it have been for some--
I'm assuming for the perception
of belonging to a certain class
or group of people, or because
there was some functional
benefit to it?
What functional benefit
could there have been?
And I know I'm throwing you
stuff way out in left field
now, to having an
elongated skull.
Or was it just to say,
I'm a member of this clan.
I'm part of these people?
In your opinion.
>>WHEATLEY: Yeah,
in my opinion, I
think it really is about one
being noticed that you're
looking different as a ruler.
But as well, I
think the practices
that could have been in
occurrence with them,
that they could have
been the priesthood
and somehow that could maybe
enhance their intuition,
for example.
Because when we come to
look at the artifacts that
were placed in the long
barrows alongside them,
they were often shamanic,
with items of incense pots,
for example, and stag horns that
were polished, highly polished,
and not used to
prise out chalk that
was thought by archeologists.
So I think that they were
highly intuitive race of people.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
And this is bringing something
out of left field to mind.
Many years ago, I was
meditating on this,
that the Mayans that were
raising their children into more
of a priestly class had an
item dangled in front of them
that created a cross-eyed
pattern in the young kids,
and that was thought
to be desirable
because it enhanced intuition.
And I started flashing that.
I mean, again, when you step
down from the original people.
Looking back on
that, I remember when
I first started learning to
connect with the other side,
with guides and so forth,
my eyes automatically
rolled up in a
crossed eyed pattern
and everything would
open very quickly.
And so I think the
original Mayans,
this was just a matter of
what they did as practice.
And then it gets stepped down
after generation, generation.
Then you probably don't even
know why the royal family should
have crossed eyes anymore.
It may not even be
functional anymore,
but I'm wondering if
it's similar in that way.
>>WHEATLEY: I think it could be
because there was practices done
in South America to
look at earth energies
from a completely new angle.
They used to get the
children that they thought
were very receptive
to earth energies,
and place them in quite a dark
environment for the first seven
years of their life.
This is the Kogi Indians.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>WHEATLEY: And then they would
open up the landscape to them,
and they could see earth
energies through the colors
that they emitted
in the landscape.
Intriguingly, all
the long barrows,
every single long barrow
in Europe, as well as
in the British Isles
are on particular types
of earth energies.
So I think that was
enhancing their ability
to be perceptive,
intuitive, spiritual.
These were spiritual leaders
that made capitals out
of the megalithic monuments
like Stonehenge, like Avebury.
>>REGINA: That makes sense.
OK, so you researched one of
these stranger Neolithic burial
sites, and it had to do with an
entity similar to the Starchild,
that Lloyd Pye became known for.
Tell us about the Starchild
and what you discovered.
>>WHEATLEY: Yes.
Again, when I was
reading the reports
about the long barrows
surrounding Stonehenge.
It must have been about the
50th report that I had read.
And then suddenly, I thought,
what on Earth am I reading?
This was a report done by
a Victorian archeologist
and anthropologist.
He said he'd dug
into a long barrow,
and he was stopped in
his tracks because what
he saw was elongated skull
people in a circle tightly knit.
So imagine that
you're around people
in a circle that
has never been seen
in the long barrows preceding
that dig inside of which of that
circle was a very strange
being or creature,
and it was described as having
the eyes on top of its head.
Its skull was slightly long.
It seemed to have a
much thicker skull
than the other normal
long-skulled people,
and it had a tail as well.
And they described the tail.
And when I showed this
report to somebody
that worked with Lloyd
Pye, the doctor that
was looking into the Starchild.
>>REGINA: And this was
in the 1930s in Mexico.
Just to set his work up.
Yeah.
Almost 100 years ago.
>>WHEATLEY: Yes.
A long time ago.
And I showed the report
to the doctor that
was working with Lloyd
Pye, and he said,
this sounds identical
to the Starchild.
Now, this barrow is on
the exact axis line.
If you imagine a line drawn
from the center of Stonehenge
and you just draw
it north and south,
that's called an axis line.
For example, that barrow
is exactly on that line,
on the most powerful Earth
energies in the area.
And it was a different burial.
And I think that was shown to
be the case because this being,
this creature was
literally so unusual
that it was placed at
the center of the burial.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, there's going to
be a while before we
know what that's about.
Have they done
DNA testing on it?
>>WHEATLEY: Do you know what
I wish they would, Regina.
But here's the thing.
It frightened the archeologists.
>>REGINA: Oh, I'm sure.
>>WHEATLEY: So much
that they put everything
back to how they found it.
They're still there
in the landscape,
staring at Stonehenge today.
>>REGINA: Oh, my God.
>>WHEATLEY: So if we
could get a dig going,
then we could actually proves
or disproves whatever theory
we project at that.
So I would love
a new excavation.
>>REGINA: Oh, that would
be absolutely fascinating.
OK, so I'm wishing
you luck on that.
Now, one of the things
some of these skulls had
was evidence of what's
called trepanning, right?
Which is-- Explain
what trepanning is
and why this procedure would
have been done on these skulls.
>>WHEATLEY: Yes.
Trepanning is quite unusual.
It was widely, widely
done in the Neolithic.
So let's imagine a
skull of a living being.
This person is alive.
They've got a long skull,
and they have a circle
drilled out of their skull,
created normally about here.
And so we imagine that a
circle is taken out or here.
That's where they would trepan.
Why would you go through that?
When I looked at
the reports, again,
of all of the
long-skulled people,
they all showed one
sign of an anomaly.
And that anomaly was their
sutures froze and literally came
together at a much, much
younger age than they would
for an average person today,
which is 30 years old,
your sutures will fuse together.
>>REGINA: Your skull
is solid and intact.
>>WHEATLEY: Exactly.
But that was happening at
a much, much younger age.
And there has been somebody
in England who in the 1960s,
I think it was Amanda Feilding,
she did this operation
on herself.
Yeah, I know.
>>REGINA: Literally?
>>WHEATLEY: Yes, yes.
She got a drill and she made--
>>REGINA: That's a DIY thing
I cannot even comprehend.
>>WHEATLEY: No.
But she did.
And she said suddenly her
consciousness changed and she
felt the heartbeat in the head.
And she said her
consciousness went up.
So I think what the
elongated skull people
were doing to trepan
their skulls is
because their intuition may
have been lacking in some way.
Their sutures were
fusing together.
They could no longer hear
that heartbeat in their head,
and so they would
trepan their skulls.
And that happened so commonly
to these types of people.
But then again, I noticed
the ones that were trepanned
had a different feature
in their long barrows
that made it quite visual.
Now, if we again
visualize a piece of stone
that is in a long barrow
where their eventually
their remains were placed.
They all had a hole
carved out of the stone.
I mean, this stone is about
four or five feet thick,
and they a perfect circle, as
if reflecting their operations
on their skull.
>>REGINA: So where
was this stone placed,
as opposed to their body?
Inside, near the
body or at the head?
At the head of the
body or something?
>>WHEATLEY: Exactly.
They'd go through the
hole in the long barrow,
and that's where their
remains were placed.
So every single holed
stone in a long barrow
would house trepanned skulls.
And again, not--
>>REGINA: Both of
them were almost
like a portal to somewhere else
or consciousness elsewhere.
>>WHEATLEY: Oh, absolutely.
I think when we look to the
mythology of holed stones,
they're either taking
you somewhere else.
You're going from one place to
another, to the other world,
to the druids.
And so I think that was
a very powerful and also
in dowsing terms as well,
because obviously, I
look to the unseen
as much as the seen.
And then I found out they
were on a very powerful vortex
energy.
So if we say, OK,
these long barrows
eventually housed the deposits
of the elongated skull people.
But what if prior to that,
this was their temple space?
This is where they were
doing their divination
from their healing
practices from,
then they are on very, very
powerful earth energies that
are influenced by the sun, by
the moon and by the stars alike.
So I think that
these places were
where they would choose to do
particular activities to do
with psychic, intuition,
healing and other things
we probably can
only just imagine.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
absolutely fascinating
to think that they created
almost like a cranial release
valve so they could unleash
their full consciousness
through this hole in their head.
>>WHEATLEY: It's a
very bizarre practice.
And after, even when
they had been deceased,
their relatives or maybe
the shamanic high priests
would then take little
pieces of that bone
and change them into amulets
that they would wear around
their necks.
So it's almost like these
people lived on and on and on.
And their bones were
revered for that.
So they must have had
something about them completely
different to be so revered.
>>REGINA: Probably a hybrid
species of some kind.
We can assume, probably even
assume that that's fair.
>>WHEATLEY: Absolutely.
Because when we look to--
why ignore this DNA evidence?
>>REGINA: No, that's just crazy.
>>WHEATLEY: Yeah, why ignore
the most unusual burial
in the whole of Europe that I
found when it's there, intact?
Could be an excellent
opportunity to get DNA.
But no.
>>REGINA: Any
archeologists listening.
There's a big invitation.
Could be the most exciting
ride of your life.
I hope that does come
to pass and that you're
part of it, Maria.
>>WHEATLEY: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Let's
move on to something
called the Tartarian
tablets of Europe.
Most people have
never heard of those.
They have no idea that
there were tablets predating
cuneiform, which we all
assume is the oldest language,
so to speak, symbolically.
And so tell us what they are.
And then if you
can if they've been
translated at all, what they
were pointing to or contained?
I'd love to hear
more about them.
And this is in Romania, right?
Which is interesting
because the whole series
of books by someone with
the pseudonym Radu Cinamar
is out there now, talking
about these incredible finds
of ancient, ancient caves,
knowledge holograms and all
this in Romania that's
protected by a military base.
How true this is?
Some people say it's true.
I don't know but it's
all out of Romania.
And this is out of Romania.
>>WHEATLEY: Absolutely.
I mean, we think, like you said,
that cuneiform is the oldest
form of writing, again orthodox
dating to about 3,200 BC from
Mesopotamia, modern
day Iraq and Iran.
And they would use
angles to record things
for economic purposes.
They will look into oh, I
owe you this, I owe you that.
So they were economical
records, if you will.
But the Tartarian tablets
are very different.
They're a metaphysical language.
They're a magical language,
and they were made up
of five symbols, and these
date back 2000 years older
than cuneiform.
>>REGINA: So we're
talking over 7,000 years.
>>WHEATLEY: Yeah, exactly.
So much, much older
than cuneiform.
And they're made
up of five symbols.
You'd have a cross that
could be at any angle,
literally like a cross.
And then you would have
a linear line, a dot,
a curved piece of linear work,
and then a chevron pattern.
And from those five symbols
across ancient Europe
are birthed in
Romania, we think.
But that's just because
they were found there.
I think they're
going to be found all
across Europe, for example.
And they would mean something
to these ancient peoples.
Well, I'd read this report.
I've been to Romania, I've
seen the Romanian Sphinx,
I've been to Transylvania.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WHEATLEY: --With my daughter.
So I know the area quite well.
And when I was working at
a museum helping a curator,
I suddenly looked and thought,
that's the same as the Tartarian
tablets.
And I looked and
took a photograph
and placed it right
by a photograph
of what came out of Romania.
And they're very,
very identical.
Now, I think it's a
shamanic language.
I think it's a
metaphysical language
because there's no record.
You couldn't say oh,
I owe you something.
They were showing, for
example, deer heads, drums
on particular tablets.
And again, those five symbols.
And this came from Avebury,
this particular chalk tablet,
which is the world's
largest stone circle.
Then I looked
towards Stonehenge.
And from one burial there
was a high priestess
of the Bronze Age, and she
was buried with these tablets.
But they now looked runic.
OK, now the runes
were discovered
around about the earliest known
inscriptions were from one 150
AD.
Well, this is 2,500 BC and
they were very runic looking.
So I think this again was a
divination-- used in divination.
I mean, some people
would say, no, the runes
came from the Vikings, they
came from the Germanic people,
but they are there at Stonehenge
and they're in a museum.
And they were put onto these
symbols, these rune symbols,
onto tiny pieces of bone.
Now, here's the thing
about stone Stonehenge.
If you imagine that you're
by the two altar stones.
I was the first to discover the
missing stones of Stonehenge.
And there were two altar
stones, and there would
be a high priestess there.
You had more high priestesses
than high priests,
and they would have, for
example, these incense pots.
Well, they've recently been
re-evaluated and looked
at under a microscope and they
contained quite heavy opiates,
so I think they were in
altered state of consciousness.
But with the elongated
skull people of Stonehenge,
I think they could change
light into sound technology.
OK.
Because if you imagine
there's two altar
stones at the heart
of Stonehenge,
and then on the summer
solstice, it's well known,
worldwide fame
that the sun aligns
with the heel stone,
and a corridor of light
would have gone into
the center of Stonehenge
and hit those two altar stones.
Now, it is known on
a scientific level,
for example, that
at dawn and sunset.
And this is why I think,
Regina, standing stones
are in alignment with the sun.
It's not about looking
at a pretty event
that people do today watching
the sun rise above a stone.
Not so at all.
Because at dawn and at sunset
we see the sunset as red light
predominantly, don't we?
Well, in that red light you
have microwaves, radio waves,
for example, as well.
So imagine all of
that as a cocktail.
Well, microwaves
can be transduced.
That means changed
to pressure waves
when passed through a
piezoelectric material.
Well, what do we
have at Stonehenge?
All of those stones are
piezoelectrical activity.
And other stone circles as well.
So what happens is when the
sun rises at Stonehenge,
you've got all of
these microwaves.
And then when it's pushed
through a piezoelectric material
it changes that pressure
wave into sound, ultrasound.
And that's a fact.
So I think that they
were programming
that light to go
through the stone
so that they would then
have this ultrasound.
Now I noticed on the
elongated skull people,
not only, as I said
earlier, were there
ears in a different position.
When I gave a report and a
report to a doctor in London,
for example, I
said, why are they
saying these reports that
the ear bones are different?
What does this mean?
And she said, this
report is wrong.
And I said, I've copied,
cut, pasted from Oxford time
and again, they're saying
this about their ear bones.
And she said they'd hear
different frequencies
in all probability.
So I think they were hearing
the event at Stonehenge
when that light was
transduced to sound.
Other experiments have
shown that stone circles,
that the ultrasound
coming out of stones
triggered by the
sun's placement,
literally goes up
to 40 meters away
from the center of the stone.
So the sound isn't coming in.
It's going out.
>>REGINA: It's
emanating from there.
And can you imagine what purpose
that might have served for them?
Could it be they were hybrids?
Could it be they're
speaking to beings
and throughout the cosmos?
Could it be they're
speaking with the earth?
We don't do we?
>>WHEATLEY: We don't know.
But what we do know is that
ultrasound can be recorded.
So it's a fact.
You can get literally
some equipment
to go into any stone
circle, provided
that the sun is
rising or setting,
you will get that
type of activity.
>>REGINA: Have people
attempted to do that?
>>WHEATLEY: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: And are they
getting the sounds?
>>WHEATLEY: Oh, absolutely.
I've got the sound.
>>REGINA: You do?
>>WHEATLEY: Yes, I've done tests
because ultrasound equipment can
be bought because bats follow
ultrasound energy, don't they?
It's well documented.
So if you buy that
type of equipment
you can then start to go to a
stone circle and test it out,
which is what I have done,
and proceed in my team
because I work with
a team of experts.
Preceding that, one of my team
members was working with what
was called the Dragon
Project in the 1970s and 80s,
and they got exactly
the same results.
It's about ultrasound.
>>REGINA: So when
you're listening to it,
is it as though it's
just a constant sound,
or is there almost fluctuating
sound or melody to it?
>>WHEATLEY: That's a really
interesting question.
What was found it's a pulse.
Imagine like a pulse beat coming
out of the stones at that time.
It's pulsing, pulsing, pulsing.
Then it can go
quite faint and then
it can pick up again
and go quite high.
>>REGINA: Just almost like
listening to the heartbeat.
>>WHEATLEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Interesting.
>>WHEATLEY: It's like
a megalithic heartbeat.
And also what I discovered
about the standing
stones as well is that they have
particular points on them where
another form of
sound is released,
coming out of that
particular point.
And that's around
about 18 Hertz, OK.
We've measured it and
it was fascinating.
The team were amazed.
I would dowse the
stone and say, this
is where the energy
is coming out.
And what is this energy?
Well, my team found out that
it was sound, like I said,
18 Hertz.
We hear at 20.
I think the elongated skull
people could hear the stones.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so I have this written down
here that it has a dowsable,
you call it a dowsable
pattern that's
almost like concentric shells.
>>WHEATLEY: Yes.
So if we see a standing stone
placed into predominantly
the chalk bedrock at
Stonehenge and Avebury
and in the north of England,
they're not in the earth,
they're in the
solid chalk bedrock.
And if you imagine a bit like
an acupuncture needle going
into a meridian line, you need
an earth current, a ley line
or a grid line to get
that stone active.
So you put it onto
a meridian line
and then it produces around
itself, concentric circle
after concentric circle, going
way out from the standing stone.
Well, that's been documented
by my late father,
and I'm a research author.
And I thought, I'm going to
get a team to measure this,
to prove or disprove.
I want the truth of what
standing stones are capable of.
So we went on to the
first concentric circle,
and we got a frequency
of 133 Hertz.
And we had control
areas as well.
Well, 133 Hertz can put you
into very deep meditation.
>>REGINA: Like a theta state.
>>WHEATLEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WHEATLEY: Exactly.
And that's what happens.
So our next experiment was
rigging me up to a Mind Mirror,
looking at my left hemisphere
and my right hemisphere
at exactly the same time.
>>REGINA: Explain
this for us a bit.
>>WHEATLEY: Yeah.
You're kind of rigged
up to a computer that
is called the Mind Mirror, and
it's measuring my brain waves.
>>REGINA: So like an EEG.
It has--
>>WHEATLEY: Yeah.
I've got all rigged up.
>>REGINA: All rigged up, OK.
>>WHEATLEY: And I'm having my
brain looked, my brain waves.
And like, now if I was
measured, I'm in beta.
I'm thinking about
what I'm talking about.
And you have different
alpha and delta.
>>REGINA: Then
you go into theta.
Then down into deep delta.
>>WHEATLEY: Delta, yes.
>>REGINA: Which
is usually asleep.
But some people can be conscious
and access things from delta.
>>WHEATLEY: Absolutely
And you're leading me
into what my discovery was.
So thank you for that.
For example, I was on that
energy concentric circle band
and then I was not meditating.
I was actually just sat
there but not meditating.
My eyes were open and my brain
suddenly went into delta.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>WHEATLEY: OK.
So you don't have to be in a
meditative state at Avebury
or Stonehenge.
You just have to be on
that megalithic energy band
and you instantly go into delta.
Now that cannot be denied,
because I've got the results.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Wow.
That's fascinating.
So once you were in
Delta state, did you
use it for anything or
you just let it register
and that was enough?
>>WHEATLEY: It was for
an experiment, really.
But I did feel myself
almost entering
into another part of Avebury.
And I'm sure if I stayed
there for a little bit longer,
it's like being on
a portal taken--
>>REGINA: Another dimension.
>>WHEATLEY: Yes, taking
you somewhere else
and your brain is naturally
put into that state
without the need of meditation.
So I think the people
that raise these stones,
the elongated skull
people, they knew where
to stand by a standing stone.
We go right up to stones.
I take hundreds of people
to Avebury and Stonehenge
and everybody wants
to hug a stone.
Yeah, everybody wants
to lean against a stone.
And it's wonderful.
And that's magical.
But if they just walked
away from the stone,
imagine standing some
distance from it.
That's where--
>>REGINA: The power is.
>>WHEATLEY: --The power is.
It's not necessarily
right by the stone.
And that sounds
counterintuitive,
but that's what we've proved.
>>REGINA: Well, it has to
be some kind of interaction
between the stones that's
creating that dynamic.
So if you're right on a stone,
you're not getting that dynamic.
So I mean, I keep thinking
about once Outlander came out,
and everybody's
watching Outlander.
It was a rage around the
Western world and beyond.
I mean, thousands and
thousands of people
started trying to seek out
any standing stone circle.
And so many people
must have been affected
on an unconscious level by
just going to be there and play
with it, hoping something
would happen, but actually
not knowing.
And so you're
taking people there.
First of all, I assume
you get special permission
to go into Stonehenge because
it's well walled off now.
I mean, it's not
accessible unless you--
What do you have to do?
Do you have to go with a group?
Do you have to get
advance permission?
How does that work?
>>WHEATLEY: Absolutely.
You're right.
At Stonehenge, you have
to have private access
and you have to apply for
that months in advance.
Some people say a month before.
Can you get me into Stonehenge?
Highly unlikely.
You have to plan it.
But the thing about
Stonehenge is where
those stones have been worked.
What do I mean by
stones being worked?
They've been made into that
rectangular lozenge shape.
And some standing stones
aren't, but some at Avebury
are carved to have
facial profiles, as well.
Now, when you start to
literally tap stone,
just like a sculpture, like a
mason, work in a piece of stone.
It was found in the 1970s
with a Cambridge don.
He literally was a
professor from Cambridge
called Tom Lethbridge that
became a master dowser.
And he noticed, for example, if
a man worked a piece of stone
and tapped it, it's like put in
a thermal shock into the stone.
It registered his
bionic charge, that it
was a male working, a male.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>WHEATLEY: And a
female, if she tapped it,
he got his wife to do that.
But you have to put a
lot of energy into it.
It registered a
female signature.
So what I did at
Stonehenge is I doused
for all the bionic charges
of the standing stones
at that site and the huge
inner trilithons, that's
two stones with the standing
stone lintel on top.
That's called a trilithon.
They were worked by
women, so we have a lot
of women masons with that.
But again, I mentioned
about microwaves being
transduced from light to sound.
Well, it's long been
thought that a standing
stones in a lattice structure
is identical to a semiconductor
from Silicon Valley.
>>REGINA: Love it.
>>WHEATLEY: Oh, yeah.
They're identical.
OK.
Now so if you place
those two side by side,
they can have memory, like
you would have in your laptop.
And they can record things
and produce things as well.
So we think that if you're
programming these standing
stones and you're really pushing
into that crystal lattice
through thermal shock,
and every single standing
stone at Stonehenge
has had thermal shock,
then you can put
in an image to that
or you can put in
your intent to that.
Because there's a myth
that has been widely spoken
about Stonehenge, and that's
every winter solstice,
the great god Apollo leaves
his temple at Delphi.
That's a beautiful
temple in Greece
and manifests at Stonehenge.
And people could communicate
with the god Apollo.
What I think is going
on there is the stones
were programmed
like a bionic charge
to have that image
of the healing god.
Because every single
ancient calendar,
called an almanac cog
of the British Isles
records that Apollo manifests.
>>REGINA: Wow.
Interesting.
>>WHEATLEY: So I think there was
a slight, fleeting image came
out of the stones
at the same time
the ultrasound was being
released and triggered
by the light of the sun.
So there's a lot more to stone
programming than meets the eye.
And that's what I think
these stone circles have.
I was Dolores Cannon's
guide for many, many years.
>>REGINA: I loved her.
>>WHEATLEY: Oh, yeah.
I mean, I worked with
Dolores for a long time,
and I remember telling her
about stone programming,
and she was in
agreement that she'd
had some regressions
in her work that
would kind of say a
similar thing to what
I was talking can about.
>>REGINA: Well, we're
almost out of time,
and I have so many more
things I want to ask you,
but let's just do
this one little bit
because we didn't get to it.
Silbury Hill in England
and Grave Creek Mound
in West Virginia.
Tell us a little bit about
what these have in common,
and about the notion of working
with the moonlit landscape,
because I know this also
has to do with Stonehenge as
much as you can say
in three minutes.
>>WHEATLEY: OK.
Well, Silbury Hill is the
largest man-made mound
in North West Europe.
And you have a very
similar monument
in West Virginia
called Grave Creek.
Now, we did some fantastic
experiments there.
I know that dowsing
can prove things.
So I was dowsing
there and said, this
is coming out as
something quite good.
If we could get the equipment to
prove my dowsing, which we got.
So we were looking for
the electrostatic field
on Silbury Hill.
What's it like at the
top to the bottom.
It was 1,000 times greater
later at the top of mounds.
OK, now if you imagine that
electrostatic field is going
to build up and build
up and build up,
then at night, if
that's indeed the case,
and we proved it
with our results,
it would have released a kind
of blue haze on the top of it.
It would have lit up the dark.
These mounds.
And more than that, there were
some people in the Avebury area
that have photographed
this blue haze being
emitted from Silbury Hill.
So I think these ancient
mounds could light up the dark,
and these are being stimulated
by the earth energies
beneath them that are releasing
ions, negative ions, right
the way up through the mound.
And then you have this
spectacular light show
of the ancient world.
>>REGINA: Oh, my.
All of this is
absolutely fascinating.
And I'm sure you have a
lot of people excited to do
a spiritual journey, as tour.
And you do take people
on tours, right?
But you've got to get
on in advance if you
want to experience Stonehenge.
It sounds like.
How far out--?
You're out probably a
year out or so on people
signing up for your
Stonehenge tours.
But it can be done right?
>>WHEATLEY: Oh, absolutely.
And if I can get people
in at the last minute,
I can try to do that as well.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And meanwhile, we
need to see if you
can get some dig
going for that entity
that you were talking
about earlier.
It's all very exciting.
Thank you so much for
your due diligence.
You just literally keep
digging and digging
and gathering more knowledge.
And this is quite a leap from
last time I spoke with you even.
Thank you so much, Maria.
>>WHEATLEY: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Absolutely
fascinating.
You can find Maria's work at
her website at mariawheatley.uk.
This woman never stops.
It's always going
to be exciting.
You can also see my
previous interview
with her here in
the Gaia archives.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]